<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8' standalone='no'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id='dataset_cds_v6-2_type_130_-_admitted_patient_care_-_finished_general_episode_cds.overview'>
  <title>Overview</title>
  <titlealts>
    <searchtitle>Data Set: CDS V6-2 Type 130 - Admitted Patient Care - Finished General Episode CDS - Overview</searchtitle>
  </titlealts>
  <body>
  <div>
    <p>
      <b>Introduction</b>
    </p>
    <p>
      <xref outputclass="dataSet" keyref="dataset_cds_v6-2_type_130_-_admitted_patient_care_-_finished_general_episode_cds">CDS V6-2 Type 130 - Admitted Patient Care - Finished General Episode Commissioning Data Set</xref>
 carries the data for a Finished General Episode.        </p>
    <p>
It covers all NHS and private Admitted Patient Care (day case and inpatient) 
              <xref outputclass="class" keyref="class_activity">ACTIVITY</xref>
 taking place in any:        </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <div>
          <p>
acute, community, mental health 
                                <xref outputclass="businessDefinition" keyref="business_definition_nhs_trust">NHS Trust</xref>
 or 
                                <xref outputclass="businessDefinition" keyref="business_definition_nhs_foundation_trust">NHS Foundation Trust</xref>
          </p>
        </div>
      </li>
      <li>
        <div>
          <p>other NHS hospital</p>
        </div>
      </li>
      <li>
        <div>
          <p>non-NHS hospitals or institutions where the care delivered is NHS-funded.</p>
        </div>
      </li>
    </ul>
    <p>
under the care of a 
              <xref outputclass="class" keyref="class_consultant">CONSULTANT</xref>, 
              <xref outputclass="class" keyref="class_midwife">MIDWIFE</xref>
 or 
              <xref outputclass="class" keyref="class_nurse">NURSE</xref>, where an appropriate 
              <xref outputclass="attribute" keyref="attribute_main_specialty_code">MAIN SPECIALTY CODE</xref>
 and 
              <xref outputclass="attribute" keyref="attribute_treatment_function_code">TREATMENT FUNCTION CODE</xref>
 exists.          </p>
    <p>
      <xref outputclass="class" keyref="class_activity">ACTIVITY</xref>
 taking place under the care of Allied Health Professionals, other 
              <xref outputclass="businessDefinition" keyref="business_definition_biomedical_scientist">Biomedical Scientists</xref>
 and 
              <xref outputclass="businessDefinition" keyref="business_definition_clinical_scientist">Clinical Scientists</xref>
 may also be carried (where an appropriate 
              <xref outputclass="attribute" keyref="attribute_main_specialty_code">MAIN SPECIALTY CODE</xref>
 and 
              <xref outputclass="attribute" keyref="attribute_treatment_function_code">TREATMENT FUNCTION CODE</xref>
 exists) if required although this is not a 
              <xref outputclass="supportingInformation" keyref="supporting_definition_commissioning_data_set_mandated_data_flows">Commissioning Data Set Mandated Data Flow</xref>.        </p>
    <p>
Where the Care Activity data relates to a 
              <xref outputclass="businessDefinition" keyref="business_definition_referral_to_treatment_period_included_in_referral_to_treatment_consultant-led_waiting_times_measurement">Referral To Treatment Period Included In Referral To Treatment Consultant-Led Waiting Times Measurement</xref>, the CDS DATA GROUP : PATIENT PATHWAY data elements must be completed where appropriate.        </p>
    <p>
An Unfinished General Episode Commissioning Data Set record is required for all Unfinished General Episodes as at midnight on 31 March each year and for all unfinished short-stay informal psychiatric 
              <xref outputclass="class" keyref="class_patient">PATIENTS</xref>
 who are resident in hospital or on leave of absence (<xref outputclass="businessDefinition" keyref="business_definition_home_leave">Home Leave</xref>) on 31 March and who have been in hospital for less than 12 months.        </p>
    <p>
      <xref outputclass="dataSet" keyref="dataset_cds_v6-2_type_190_-_admitted_patient_care_-_unfinished_general_episode_cds">CDS V6-2 Type 190 - Admitted Patient Care - Unfinished General Episode Commissioning Data Set</xref>
 should be used for the submission of this Unfinished General Episode Commissioning Data Set.        </p>
    <p>
To access more detailed information on the Commissioning Data Sets, see the 
              <xref outputclass="supportingInformation" keyref="supporting_definition_commissioning_data_sets_introduction">Commissioning Data Sets Introduction</xref>.        </p>
    <p>
      <b>Notation</b>
    </p>
    <p>
See 
              <xref outputclass="supportingInformation" keyref="supporting_definition_commissioning_data_set_notation">Commissioning Data Set Notation</xref>
 for an explanation of Group Status and Group Repeats.        </p>
    <p>
      <b>Business Rules</b>
    </p>
    <p>
See 
              <xref outputclass="supportingInformation" keyref="supporting_definition_commissioning_data_set_business_rules">Commissioning Data Set Business Rules</xref>
 for an explanation of the business and/or processing rules which apply to individual Data Elements.        </p>
    <p>
      <b>XML Schema</b>
    </p>
    <p>
For guidance on the XML Schema constraints, see the 
              <xref outputclass="xmlSchemaConstraint" keyref="xml_schema_constraint_commissioning_data_set_version_6-2_xml_schema_constraints">Commissioning Data Set Version 6-2 XML Schema Constraints</xref>.        </p>
    <p>
For guidance on downloading the XML Schema, see 
              <xref href="https://v3.datadictionary.nhs.uk/data_dictionary/messages/xml_schema_trud_download.html" scope="external" format="html">XML_Schema_TRUD_Download</xref>.        </p>
  </div>
</body>
</topic>