<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8' standalone='no'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id='dataset_chlamydia_testing_activity_data_set.overview'>
  <title>Overview</title>
  <titlealts>
    <searchtitle>Data Set: Chlamydia Testing Activity Data Set - Overview</searchtitle>
  </titlealts>
  <body>
  <div>
    <p>
      <b>Introduction</b>
    </p>
    <p>
The 
              <xref outputclass="dataSet" keyref="dataset_chlamydia_testing_activity_data_set">Chlamydia Testing Activity Data Set</xref>
 collects information on all chlamydia testing commissioned by the NHS and carried out in all 
              <xref outputclass="supportingInformation" keyref="supporting_definition_laboratory">Laboratory</xref>
 settings in England. It includes results taken from all 
              <xref outputclass="class" keyref="class_patient">PATIENTS</xref>
 tested for Chlamydia in all NHS settings, or in non-healthcare settings and as part of the 
              <xref outputclass="businessDefinition" keyref="business_definition_nhs_national_chlamydia_screening_programme">NHS National Chlamydia Screening Programme</xref>
 in England.        </p>
    <p>
      <xref outputclass="businessDefinition" keyref="business_definition_public_health_england">Public Health England</xref>
 (<xref outputclass="businessDefinition" keyref="business_definition_public_health_england">PHE</xref>) is required to monitor and evaluate the 
              <xref outputclass="businessDefinition" keyref="business_definition_nhs_national_chlamydia_screening_programme">NHS National Chlamydia Screening Programme</xref>
 (<xref outputclass="businessDefinition" keyref="business_definition_nhs_national_chlamydia_screening_programme">NCSP</xref>) through the reporting of data.        </p>
    <p>
      <b>Data Extract Specification</b>
    </p>
    <p>
      <b>Description:</b>
 Each 
              <xref outputclass="supportingInformation" keyref="supporting_definition_laboratory">Laboratory</xref>
 will be required to generate a quarterly disaggregated data extract of all chlamydia tests carried out using Nucleic Acid Amplification Testing (NAAT).        </p>
    <p>
      <b>Time period:</b>
 The extract will cover one calendar quarter, based on the date the 
              <xref outputclass="class" keyref="class_sample">SAMPLE</xref>
 is received at the 
              <xref outputclass="supportingInformation" keyref="supporting_definition_laboratory">Laboratory</xref>.        </p>
    <p>
      <b>Frequency:</b>
 Extracts will run quarterly, 6 weeks after the end of the quarter.        </p>
    <p>
      <b>Format:</b>
 Data returned should be formatted to a comma separated variable (CSV) or MS Excel file.        </p>
    <p>
      <b>Transmission:</b>
 Electronic files will be transmitted to 
              <xref outputclass="businessDefinition" keyref="business_definition_public_health_england">Public Health England</xref>
 through the secure Microbiology and Epidemiology of STI's and HIV (MESH) Departments web portal. Connection to the portal requires a login account name and password which are available from 
              <xref outputclass="businessDefinition" keyref="business_definition_public_health_england">Public Health England</xref>.        </p>
    <p>
      <b>Mandation</b>
    </p>
    <p>The Mandation column indicates the recommendation for the inclusion of data:</p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <div>
          <p>M = Mandatory: this data element is mandatory and the technical process (e.g. submission of the data set, production of output etc) cannot be completed without this data element being present</p>
        </div>
      </li>
      <li>
        <div>
          <p>R = Required: NHS business processes cannot be delivered without this data element.</p>
        </div>
      </li>
      <li>
        <div>
          <p>O = Optional: the inclusion of this data element is optional as required for local purposes.</p>
        </div>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </div>
</body>
</topic>