<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8' standalone='no'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id='element_critical_care_admission_type.permitted_codes'>
  <title>Permitted Codes</title>
  <titlealts>
    <searchtitle>Data Element: CRITICAL CARE ADMISSION TYPE - Permitted Codes</searchtitle>
  </titlealts>
  <body>
    <simpletable relcolwidth='1* 4*' outputclass='table table-striped table-sm'>
      <sthead outputclass='thead-light'>
        <stentry>Code</stentry>
        <stentry>Description</stentry>
      </sthead>
      <strow>
        <stentry>
  <p>01</p>
</stentry>
        <stentry>
  <p>
Unplanned local admission. All emergency or urgent 
        <xref outputclass="class" keyref="class_patient">PATIENTS</xref>
 referred to the unit only as a result of an unexpected acute illness occurring within the local area (hospitals within the Trust together with neighbouring community units and services).    </p>
</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>
  <p>02</p>
</stentry>
        <stentry>
  <p>
Unplanned transfer in. All emergency or urgent 
        <xref outputclass="class" keyref="class_patient">PATIENTS</xref>
 referred to the unit as a result of an unexpected acute illness occurring outside the local area (including private and overseas 
        <xref outputclass="businessDefinition"
            keyref="business_definition_health_care_provider">Health Care Providers</xref>).    </p>
</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>
  <p>03</p>
</stentry>
        <stentry>
  <p>
Planned transfer in (tertiary referral). A pre-arranged admission to the unit after treatment or initial stabilisation at another 
        <xref outputclass="businessDefinition"
            keyref="business_definition_health_care_provider">Health Care Provider</xref>
 (including private and overseas 
        <xref outputclass="businessDefinition"
            keyref="business_definition_health_care_provider">Health Care Providers</xref>) but requiring specialist or higher-level care that cannot be provided at the source hospital or unit.    </p>
</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>
  <p>04</p>
</stentry>
        <stentry>
  <p>Planned local surgical admission. A pre-arranged surgical admission from the local area to the to the unit, acceptance by the unit must have occurred prior to the start of the surgical procedure and the procedure will usually have been of an elective or scheduled nature. For example, following a major procedure, for a high risk medical condition associated with any level of surgery, admitted prior to elective surgery for optimisation, admitted for monitoring of pain control eg epidurals, or obstetric surgical cases admitted on a planned basis.</p>
</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>
  <p>05</p>
</stentry>
        <stentry>
  <p>Planned local medical admission from the local area. Booked medical admission, for example, planned investigation or high risk medical treatment.</p>
</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>
  <p>06</p>
</stentry>
        <stentry>
  <p>
Repatriation. The 
        <xref outputclass="class" keyref="class_patient">PATIENT</xref>
 is normally resident in your local area and is being admitted or readmitted to your unit from another hospital (including overseas 
        <xref outputclass="businessDefinition"
            keyref="business_definition_health_care_provider">Health Care Providers</xref>). This situation will normally arise when a 
        <xref outputclass="class" keyref="class_patient">PATIENT</xref>
 is returning from tertiary or specialist care.    </p>
</stentry>
      </strow>
    </simpletable>
  </body>
</topic>