<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8' standalone='no'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id='attribute_area_of_work_name.description'>
  <title>Description</title>
  <titlealts>
    <searchtitle>Attribute: AREA OF WORK NAME - Description</searchtitle>
  </titlealts>
  <body>

  <p>The name of an area of work.</p>
  <p>An area of work is an area, function or specialty where work activity takes place.</p>
  <p>An area of work is categorised into three hierarchical levels. Each Primary value is included in the list of Secondary values, and each Secondary value is included in the list of Tertiary values.</p>
  <p>
The 
    <b>Primary</b>
 area of work is a high level grouping of clinical specialties e.g. Medicine, Surgery, Psychiatry; or support functions e.g. Estates, Facilities; or other broad grouping e.g. Primary Care, Clinical Support.  </p>
  <p>
The 
    <b>Secondary</b>
 area of work includes each recognised clinical specialty, e.g. Neurology, Ophthalmology; other values identify major areas e.g. Outpatients or functions e.g. Catering, Finance, Pharmacy, where work is undertaken.  </p>
  <p>
The 
    <b>Tertiary</b>
 area of work includes each clinical sub-specialty recognised by the Postgraduate Medical Education and Training Board (PMETB) e.g. Metabolic Medicine; other values identify subsidiary work areas or functions where work is undertaken.  </p>
  <p>
Note that this is essentially 
    <xref href="http://www.datadictionary.nhs.uk/web_site_content/supporting_definitions/electronic_staff_record.asp"
            scope="external"
            format="html">Electronic_Staff_Record</xref>
 (
    <xref href="http://www.datadictionary.nhs.uk/web_site_content/supporting_definitions/electronic_staff_record.asp"
            scope="external"
            format="html">ESR</xref>
) terminology to facilitate workforce planning, and has no direct connection to Primary Care, Secondary Care, Intermediate Care, etc.  </p>
  <code>TermServer</code>

</body>
</topic>