<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="about">
    <title>About the NHS Data Model and Dictionary</title>
    <shortdesc>The purpose of the NHS Data Model and Dictionary and other complementary resources
        and services.</shortdesc>
    <body>
        <p>The NHS Data Model and Dictionary gives a reference point for assured information
            standards, to support health care activities in the NHS in England. The NHS Data Model
            and Dictionary has been developed for everyone who is actively involved in the
            collection of data and the management of information in the NHS.</p>
        <p>The NHS Data Model and Dictionary Service provides the development, maintenance and
            support of NHS Information Standards.</p>
<p>For further information on the NHS Data Model and Dictionary Version 3, see:
                <xref
                href="https://www.datadictionary.nhs.uk/supporting_information/about_the_nhs_data_model_and_dictionary_version_3.html"
                format="html" scope="external">About the NHS Data Model and Dictionary Version 3</xref>.</p>
        <p>Published Information Standards can be found at: <xref
                href="https://digital.nhs.uk/data-and-information/information-standards/information-standards-and-data-collections-including-extractions/publications-and-notifications"
                format="html" scope="external">Published Information Standards
            Documentation</xref>.</p>
        
        <p>The NHS Data Model and Dictionary Service thank the <xref
                href="https://www.bdi.ox.ac.uk/" format="html" scope="external">Big Data Institute
                Oxford University</xref> for their support providing the <xref href="mauro.dita"
                /> tooling and expertise to publish the NHS Data Model and Dictionary.</p>

        <div outputclass="bg-light" id="model.notation">
            <p>The NHS Data Model and Dictionary is modelled using the following convention and
                naming:</p>
            <ul id="ul_ocf_tdb_vmb">
                <li><xref href="../data_sets_overview.dita" outputclass="dataSet"/> are a group of <xref href="../data_elements_overview.dita" outputclass="element"/> that are required to support business analysis. <xref href="../data_sets_overview.dita" outputclass="dataSet"/> are built from a
                    series of <xref href="../data_elements_overview.dita" outputclass="element"/>
                    and, optionally, groups of data elements.</li>
                <li><xref href="../data_elements_overview.dita" outputclass="element"/> are a
                    specialised use of <xref href="../attributes_overview.dita"
                        outputclass="attribute"/> for use within the context of the Data Set. For
                    example they may display default codes applicable to a specific Data Element,
                    to handle circumstances where data are not available.</li>
                <li><xref href="../attributes_overview.dita" outputclass="attribute"/> describe the
                    properties of <xref href="../classes_overview.dita" outputclass="class"/> and
                    provide common data definitions for classes. For example, <xref
            href="https://datadictionary.nhs.uk/attributes/nhs_number.html" scope="external" format="html"
                outputclass="attribute">NHS NUMBER</xref> is an Attribute of the Class Patient. </li>
                <li><xref href="../classes_overview.dita" outputclass="class"/> describe aspects of
                    the health and care business with their significant characteristics through
                    their <xref href="../attributes_overview.dita" outputclass="attribute"/> and
                    their relationships to other <xref href="../classes_overview.dita"
                        outputclass="class"/>.</li>
                <li><xref href="../nhs_business_definitions_overview.dita"
                        outputclass="businessDefinition"/> describe, for example, an aspect of NHS activity, clinical process, supporting definition etc. that is specific to a Class.</li>
                <li><xref href="../supporting_information_overview.dita"
                        outputclass="supportingInformation"/> is not a part of the NHS Data Model
                    but provides additional context to help users understand the NHS Data Model and Dictionary.</li>
                <li><ph outputclass="retired">Retired items</ph> are not included in the current definitions but are
                    listed in the <xref href="../all_items_index_overview.dita" />.</li>
            </ul>
        </div>
    </body>
    <related-links>
        <link href="mauro.dita"/>
        <link href="publication.dita"/>
    </related-links>
</topic>
