<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="publication">
    <title>How we publish the NHS Data Model and Dictionary</title>
    <shortdesc>The tools we use to maintain and publish the NHS Data Model and
        Dictionary</shortdesc>
    <body>
        <p>The first editions of the NHS Data Manual and NHS Data Dictionary were published in the
            1980s as loose-leaf file. Since then the platforms have changed and evolved, with the
            last significant change in 2005, when the platform moved to the Micro Focus Together
            UML editor running in Eclipse.  Shortly after, the data model was generalised, building
            on the work of the NHS Modernisation Agency Review of Waiting and Booking Information
            (ROWBI).</p>
        <p>Since then, the platform has been stable. The UML models were refined and evolved. We are
            now in the first phase of a three phase uplift, eventually migrating the full production
            onto <xref href="mauro.dita"/> (Mauro). </p>
        <p><b>Phase one </b>includes data migration from the Together platform to <xref
                href="mauro.dita">Mauro</xref> and publishing a web-accessible data model and
            dictionary designed to work with modern browsers and on modern devices, whether wide
            screen desktop computers, smaller tablets or mobile phones.</p>
        <p>The models, including all the data sets, are translated into a vendor neutral XML
            representation conforming to the OASIS open standard - <xref href="dita_overview.dita"
            />. This allows publication of all, or any part, of the dictionary along with other
            content (including this page). Output formats available include e-books in epub or mobi
            format, print documents in accessible PDF.</p>
        <p><b>Phase two</b> will see the NHS Data Model and Dictionary Service move to maintain the
            data model and dictionary using Mauro. In parallel, NHS Digital is extending its use of
            Mauro to understand other data sets it receives with the aim of developing a common map
            of its data sets. This extension includes data specifications for the delivery of care
            including the UK core <xref href="http://www.hl7.org" format="html" scope="external"
                >Health Level 7 (HL7)</xref>
            <xref href="http://hl7.org/fhir/" format="html" scope="external">Fast Healthcare
                Interoperability (FHIR)</xref> resources.</p>
        <p>During phase two, NHS Digital intends to make the full NHS Data Model available for
            computer consumption with an Application Programming Interface and also make all of the
            codes and descriptions used in the NHS Data Model and Dictionary available as FHIR
            resources through a FHIR terminology server.</p>
        <p><b>The final phase</b> is to start moving to a single logical model with data collected
            for secondary uses, such as performance management, commissioning or research,
            demonstrating their links to the data recorded in care records. This phase will see the
            NHS Data Model uplifted from Version 3, introduced in 2005, up to Version 4.
            Underpinning the Version 4 model will be the ISO concept model of the health and care
            business, <xref
                href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/System_of_concepts_to_support_continuity_of_care"
                format="html" scope="external">ISO 13940:2015 - A system of Concepts to support the
                Continuity of Care.</xref></p>
    </body>
</topic>
