<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8' standalone='no'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id='business_definition_first_definitive_treatment.description'>
  <title>Description</title>
  <titlealts>
    <searchtitle>NHS Business Definition: First Definitive Treatment - Description</searchtitle>
  </titlealts>
  <body>
  <div>
    <p>
      <xref outputclass="businessDefinition" keyref="business_definition_first_definitive_treatment">First Definitive Treatment</xref>
 is the first 
              <xref outputclass="class" keyref="class_clinical_intervention">CLINICAL INTERVENTION</xref>
 intended to manage a 
              <xref outputclass="class" keyref="class_patient">PATIENT</xref>'s disease, condition or injury and avoid further 
              <xref outputclass="class" keyref="class_clinical_intervention">CLINICAL INTERVENTIONS</xref>.        </p>
    <p>
What constitutes 
              <xref outputclass="businessDefinition" keyref="business_definition_first_definitive_treatment">First Definitive Treatment</xref>
 is a matter of clinical judgement in consultation with others, where appropriate, including the 
              <xref outputclass="class" keyref="class_patient">PATIENT</xref>.        </p>
    <p>
      <b>
Further guidance on ending 
                  <xref outputclass="class" keyref="class_referral_to_treatment_period">REFERRAL TO TREATMENT PERIODS</xref>
 and first treatments.            </b>
    </p>
    <p>
Undertaking a procedure is not necessarily in itself the end of a 
              <xref outputclass="class" keyref="class_referral_to_treatment_period">REFERRAL TO TREATMENT PERIOD</xref>. For example, outpatient or day case diagnostic 
              <xref outputclass="class" keyref="class_care_activity">CARE ACTIVITIES</xref>
 prior to admission for treatment do not represent the end of the 
              <xref outputclass="class" keyref="class_referral_to_treatment_period">REFERRAL TO TREATMENT PERIOD</xref>
 and, in these cases, are part of the diagnostic process rather than the start of treatment.        </p>
    <p>
Commencement of medication as an outpatient can be the end of a 
              <xref outputclass="class" keyref="class_referral_to_treatment_period">REFERRAL TO TREATMENT PERIOD</xref>, if it is intended as the 
              <xref outputclass="businessDefinition" keyref="business_definition_first_definitive_treatment">First Definitive Treatment</xref>. However, 
              <xref outputclass="class" keyref="class_care_professional">CARE PROFESSIONALS</xref>
 often begin to manage a 
              <xref outputclass="class" keyref="class_patient">PATIENT</xref>'s condition in advance of the first actual treatment taking place, for example by giving pain relief before a surgical procedure takes place. In these cases, the 
              <xref outputclass="attribute" keyref="attribute_referral_to_treatment_period_end_date">REFERRAL TO TREATMENT PERIOD END DATE</xref>
 is when the 
              <xref outputclass="businessDefinition" keyref="business_definition_first_definitive_treatment">First Definitive Treatment</xref>
 (in this example, surgery) has started.        </p>
    <p>
In 
              <xref outputclass="businessDefinition" keyref="business_definition_nhs_allied_health_professional_service__referral_to_treatment_measurement_">NHS Allied Health Professional Services (Referral To Treatment Measurement)</xref>, 
              <xref outputclass="class" keyref="class_clinical_intervention">CLINICAL INTERVENTIONS</xref>
 are often the 
              <xref outputclass="businessDefinition" keyref="business_definition_first_definitive_treatment">First Definitive Treatment</xref>. However, it may be judged that other elements of 
              <xref outputclass="class" keyref="class_patient">PATIENT</xref>
 care constitute 
              <xref outputclass="businessDefinition" keyref="business_definition_first_definitive_treatment">First Definitive Treatment</xref>, for example the giving of advice. If there is any doubt, the key determining factors are        </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <div>
          <p>
what does the Allied Health Professional responsible for the 
                                <xref outputclass="class" keyref="class_patient">PATIENT</xref>'s care consider the start of treatment to be?                    </p>
        </div>
      </li>
      <li>
        <div>
          <p>
when does the 
                                <xref outputclass="class" keyref="class_patient">PATIENT</xref>
 perceive their treatment to have started?                    </p>
        </div>
      </li>
    </ul>
    <p>
Other 
              <xref outputclass="class" keyref="class_care_activity">CARE ACTIVITIES</xref>
 that may end a 
              <xref outputclass="class" keyref="class_referral_to_treatment_period">REFERRAL TO TREATMENT PERIOD</xref>
 as 
              <xref outputclass="businessDefinition" keyref="business_definition_first_definitive_treatment">First Definitive Treatment</xref>
 include the:        </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <div>
          <p>
fitting of a medical device where a 
                                <xref outputclass="class" keyref="class_consultant">CONSULTANT</xref>
 decides that treatment consists of fitting a medical device. This is the date of the actual fitting of the device rather than the point at which the 
                                <xref outputclass="class" keyref="class_patient">PATIENT</xref>
 is measured for the device                    </p>
        </div>
      </li>
      <li>
        <div>
          <p>
date of a therapeutic procedure where it is intended as diagnostic but the 
                                <xref outputclass="class" keyref="class_care_professional">CARE PROFESSIONAL</xref>
 makes a decision to undertake a therapeutic procedure at the same time. In this example, it may count as a start of treatment and as such, the period will end                    </p>
        </div>
      </li>
      <li>
        <div>
          <p>
date for less intensive treatment and medical management such as 
                                <xref outputclass="businessDefinition" keyref="business_definition_palliative_care">Palliative Care</xref>
 that may be attempted before moving on to invasive procedures and treatment or may be the only treatment. In such cases, the first treatment that is intended to manage a 
                                <xref outputclass="class" keyref="class_patient">PATIENT</xref>'s disease, condition or injury will end that particular 
                                <xref outputclass="class" keyref="class_referral_to_treatment_period">REFERRAL TO TREATMENT PERIOD</xref>. Should the 
                                <xref outputclass="class" keyref="class_patient">PATIENT</xref>
 at some later stage require more 'aggressive' treatment then the 
                                <xref outputclass="businessDefinition" keyref="business_definition_decision_to_treat">Decision To Treat</xref>
 would start a new 
                                <xref outputclass="class" keyref="class_referral_to_treatment_period">REFERRAL TO TREATMENT PERIOD</xref>
          </p>
        </div>
      </li>
      <li>
        <div>
          <p>
date 
                                <xref outputclass="businessDefinition" keyref="business_definition_active_monitoring">Active Monitoring</xref>
 commenced.                    </p>
        </div>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </div>
</body>
</topic>