<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8' standalone='no'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id='dataset_cover_of_vaccination_evaluated_rapidly__cover__data_set.overview'>
  <title>Overview</title>
  <titlealts>
    <searchtitle>Data Set: Cover of Vaccination Evaluated Rapidly (COVER) Data Set - Overview</searchtitle>
  </titlealts>
  <body>
  <div>
    <p>
      <b>Introduction</b>
    </p>
    <p>
The 
            <xref outputclass="dataSet" keyref="dataset_cover_of_vaccination_evaluated_rapidly__cover__data_set">Cover of Vaccination Evaluated Rapidly (COVER) Data Set</xref>
 is used to evaluate the routine childhood 
            <xref outputclass="businessDefinition" keyref="business_definition_immunisation_programme">Immunisation Programme</xref>
 in England for children up to 5 years of age. The aim is to collect and report vaccine uptake data for all children at one, two and five years of age on a quarterly and annual basis.        </p>
    <p>
The 
            <xref outputclass="dataSet" keyref="dataset_cover_of_vaccination_evaluated_rapidly__cover__data_set">Cover of Vaccination Evaluated Rapidly (COVER) Data Set</xref>
 is also used to evaluate the neonatal hepatitis B 
            <xref outputclass="businessDefinition" keyref="business_definition_immunisation_programme">Immunisation Programme</xref>
 in England for babies born to hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) positive mothers.        </p>
    <p>The information is used:</p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <div>
          <p>to reliably measure vaccine coverage</p>
        </div>
      </li>
      <li>
        <div>
          <p>to evaluate the success of a vaccination programme</p>
        </div>
      </li>
      <li>
        <div>
          <p>to identify susceptible populations for further interventions</p>
        </div>
      </li>
      <li>
        <div>
          <p>and to inform future vaccine policy decisions.</p>
        </div>
      </li>
    </ul>
    <xref outputclass="businessDefinition" keyref="business_definition_public_health_england">Public Health England</xref>
 is mandated to report on vaccine uptake figures for children aged one, two and five years for the 
        <xref outputclass="businessDefinition" keyref="business_definition_local_authority">Local Authority</xref>
 (upper tier) resident population for the 
        <xref href="https://fingertips.phe.org.uk/profile/public-health-outcomes-framework/data#page/0/gid/1000043/pat/6/par/E12000004/ati/102/are/E06000015" scope="external" format="html">Public Health Outcomes Framework (PHOF) indicator 3.03 Population vaccination coverage.</xref>
    <xref href="https://www.phoutcomes.info/public-health-outcomes-framework#gid/1000043" scope="external" format="html"/>
    <p>
      <xref outputclass="businessDefinition" keyref="business_definition_nhs_digital">NHS Digital</xref>
 is mandated to produce the annual 
            <xref outputclass="dataSet" keyref="dataset_cover_of_vaccination_evaluated_rapidly__cover__data_set">Cover of Vaccination Evaluated Rapidly (COVER)</xref>
 statistics. 
            <xref outputclass="dataSet" keyref="dataset_cover_of_vaccination_evaluated_rapidly__cover__data_set">Cover of Vaccination Evaluated Rapidly (COVER)</xref>
 statistics enable the monitoring of the contribution of the routine childhood 
            <xref outputclass="businessDefinition" keyref="business_definition_immunisation_programme">Immunisation Programme</xref>
 towards protecting and improving the nation's health and are used to address inequalities.        </p>
    <p>
      <xref outputclass="businessDefinition" keyref="business_definition_public_health_england">Public Health England</xref>
 and the 
            <xref outputclass="businessDefinition" keyref="business_definition_department_of_health_and_social_care">Department of Health and Social Care</xref>
 also have commitments to report vaccine coverage figures to international organisations such as the 
            <xref outputclass="businessDefinition" keyref="business_definition_world_health_organisation">World Health Organisation</xref>, and the 
            <xref outputclass="businessDefinition" keyref="business_definition_european_centre_for_disease_prevention_and_control">European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control</xref>.        </p>
    <p>
      <b>Submission</b>
    </p>
    <p>
Immunisation records are held in Child Health Information Systems (CHIS). Quarterly and annual returns are transmitted by Child Health Record Departments (who operate local Child Health Information Systems (CHIS)) or other local 
            <xref outputclass="businessDefinition" keyref="business_definition_health_care_provider">Health Care Providers</xref>
 to the 
            <xref outputclass="businessDefinition" keyref="business_definition_nhs_digital">NHS Digital</xref>
 
            <xref outputclass="supportingInformation" keyref="supporting_definition_strategic_data_collection_service">Strategic Data Collection Service</xref>
 (<xref outputclass="supportingInformation" keyref="supporting_definition_strategic_data_collection_service">SDCS</xref>).        </p>
    <p>
      <b>Further Guidance</b>
    </p>
    <p>
For further guidance see the 
            <xref outputclass="businessDefinition" keyref="business_definition_public_health_england">Public Health England</xref>
 part of the gov.uk website at 
            <xref href="https://www.gov.uk/government/collections/vaccine-uptake" scope="external" format="html">Vaccine uptake guidance and the latest coverage data</xref>.        </p>
    <p>
      <b>Mandation</b>
    </p>
    <p>The Mandation column indicates the recommendation for the inclusion of data.</p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <div>
          <p>M = Mandatory: this data element is mandatory and the technical process (e.g. submission of the data set, production of output etc) cannot be completed without this data element being present</p>
        </div>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </div>
</body>
</topic>