<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="index">
    <title>General Practice Data for Planning and Research (GPDfPR)</title>
    <shortdesc>NHS Digital's daily collection of GP data will support vital health and care planning
        and research.</shortdesc>
    <body>
        <section id="section_dn5_p1p_w4b">
            <p id="p_tk3_l3t_w4b"><b>Data collection will only begin when the following criteria
                    have been met:</b><ul id="ul_qsh_cw5_3qb">
                    <li><b>The ability for patients to opt out or back in to sharing their GP data
                            with NHS Digital, with data being deleted even if it has been uploaded,
                            and outstanding opt outs being processed</b></li>
                    <li><b>A Trusted Research Environment is available where approved researchers
                            can work securely on de-identified patient data which does not leave the
                            environment, offering further protections and privacy while enabling
                            collaboration amongst trusted researchers to further benefit
                            patients</b></li>
                    <li><b>A campaign of engagement and communication has increased public awareness
                            of the programme, explaining how data is used and patient
                        choices.</b></li>
                </ul></p>
            <p>NHS Digital has been directed by the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care
                under the <xref
                    href="https://digital.nhs.uk/about-nhs-digital/corporate-information-and-documents/directions-and-data-provision-notices/secretary-of-state-directions/general-practice-data-for-planning-and-research-directions-2021"
                    format="html" scope="external">General Practice Data for Planning and Research
                    Directions 2021</xref> to collect and analyse data from GP practices for health
                and social care purposes including policy, planning, commissioning, public health
                and research purposes. </p>
            <p>The data held in the GP medical records of patients is used every day to support
                health and care planning and research in England, helping to find better treatments
                and improve patient outcomes for everyone. NHS Digital has developed a new way to
                collect this data, called the General Practice Data for Planning and Research data
                collection. The new data collection reduces burden on GP practices, allowing doctors
                and other staff to focus on patient care.</p>
            <p>For further information see: <xref
                    href="https://digital.nhs.uk/data-and-information/data-collections-and-data-sets/data-collections/general-practice-data-for-planning-and-research"
                    format="html" scope="external">General Practice Data for Planning and Research
                    (GPDfPR)</xref>. </p>
            <p>Only structured and coded data from patient medical records that is needed for
                specific health and social care purposes will be collected; data that directly
                identifies an individual patient, including NHS number, General Practice Local
                Patient Number, full postcode, date of birth and if relevant date of death, is
                replaced with unique codes produced by de-identification software before it is sent
                to NHS Digital. Further information about what data are collected can be found at
                the links below.</p>
            <p>The data are stored in a relational data model with separate tables for different
                aspects of primary care.</p>
            <p>The information is correct as Version 1 of the GP Data Set on 12 May 2021 and there
                are no planned updates.</p>
            <p><b>If you have a question about the General Practice Data for Planning and Research
                    data collection, please email <xref
                        href="mailto:enquiries@nhsdigital.nhs.uk?subject=GP Data Set" format="html"
                        scope="external">enquiries@nhsdigital.nhs.uk</xref>.</b></p>
            <p/>
        </section>
        <section id="section_wtq_153_vpb">
            <title>Coding Systems</title>
            <p>The GPDfPR uses coded data within patient records, however there are several coding
                systems available for use in primary care.</p>
            <p>The data model allows for data from several coding systems to be collected. As a
                coded concept may mean something different in each table of the relational model,
                for example, a code in the allergy table could represent a specific allergy or
                allergic reaction whereas a code in the immunisation table could represent a
                specific vaccination; therefore a separate 'Codable concept' table is provided to
                describe each coding system.</p>
            <p>By convention it is expected that codes will be extracted in the terminology that was
                originally used to record the coded information e.g. legacy Read v2 or CTV3 codes
                along with a SNOMED translation. When information is recorded directly in SNOMED CT
                only the SNOMED code will be extracted. By convention, both the SNOMED Concept Id
                and Description Id are extracted where possible. For further information see</p>
            <p>
                <ul>
                    <li>
                        <xref
                            href="https://www.nhsbsa.nhs.uk/pharmacies-gp-practices-and-appliance-contractors/dictionary-medicines-and-devices-dmd"
                            format="html" scope="external">DM+D: The NHS Dictionary of Medicines and
                            Devices</xref></li>
                    <li>
                        <xref
                            href="https://digital.nhs.uk/services/terminology-and-classifications/snomed-ct"
                            format="html" scope="external">SNOMED CT: Systematized Nomenclature of
                            Medicine</xref></li>
                    <li><xref
                        href="https://digital.nhs.uk/services/terminology-and-classifications/read-codes"
                        format="html" scope="external">Retirement of Read v2 and CTV3 codes</xref></li>
                </ul>
            </p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_i5t_z53_vpb">
            <title>References</title>
            <p>
                <ul>
                    <li>
                        <xref
                            href="https://digital.nhs.uk/data-and-information/data-collections-and-data-sets/data-collections/general-practice-data-for-planning-and-research"
                            format="html" scope="external">General Practice Data for Planning and Research (GPDPR)</xref></li>
                    <li>
                        <xref
                            href="https://digital.nhs.uk/data-and-information/data-collections-and-data-sets/data-collections/general-practice-data-for-planning-and-research/transparency-notice"
                            format="html" scope="external">General Practice Data for Planning and Research: NHS Digital Transparency Notice</xref></li>
                    <li>
                        <xref
                            href="https://digital.nhs.uk/data-and-information/data-collections-and-data-sets/data-collections/general-practice-data-for-planning-and-research/gp-privacy-notice#top"
                            format="html" scope="external">General Practice Data for Planning and Research: GP Practice Privacy Notice</xref></li>
                    <li>
                        <xref
                            href="https://digital.nhs.uk/about-nhs-digital/corporate-information-and-documents/directions-and-data-provision-notices/secretary-of-state-directions/general-practice-data-for-planning-and-research-directions-2021"
                            format="html" scope="external">General Practice Data for Planning and Research Directions 2021</xref></li>
                </ul>
            </p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_wnw_dw3_vpb">
            <title>Tables</title>
            <p>The data fields are listed out on separate page for each table of the relational data
                model:</p>
        </section>
    </body>
</topic>
