<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8' standalone='no'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id='dataset_cds_v6-2_type_170_-_admitted_patient_care_-_detained_and_or_long_term_psychiatric_census_cds.overview'>
  <title>Overview</title>
  <titlealts>
    <searchtitle>Data Set: CDS V6-2 Type 170 - Admitted Patient Care - Detained and or Long Term Psychiatric Census CDS - Overview</searchtitle>
  </titlealts>
  <body>
  <div>
    <p>
      <b>Introduction</b>
    </p>
    <p>
      <xref outputclass="dataSet" keyref="dataset_cds_v6-2_type_170_-_admitted_patient_care_-_detained_and_or_long_term_psychiatric_census_cds">CDS V6-2 Type 170 - Admitted Patient Care - Detained and or Long Term Psychiatric Census Commissioning Data Set</xref>
 carries the data for the Psychiatric Census.        </p>
    <p>
The 
              <xref outputclass="businessDefinition" keyref="business_definition_nhs_digital">NHS Digital</xref>
 require a record for every 
              <xref outputclass="class" keyref="class_patient">PATIENT</xref>
 admitted as at 31 March each year for which the 
              <xref outputclass="class" keyref="class_patient">PATIENT</xref>
 is detained or the Episode is part of a 
              <xref outputclass="businessDefinition" keyref="business_definition_hospital_provider_spell">Hospital Provider Spell</xref>
 which has lasted longer than one year and for which the majority of time has been spent under the care of a 
              <xref outputclass="class" keyref="class_consultant">CONSULTANT</xref>
 in one of the psychiatric specialties.        </p>
    <p>
In the case of 
              <xref outputclass="supportingInformation" keyref="supporting_definition_organisation_mergers">Organisation Mergers</xref>
 and demergers occurring, where the 
              <xref outputclass="businessDefinition" keyref="business_definition_hospital_provider_spell">Hospital Provider Spell</xref>
 would have lasted longer than one year except for the merger / demerger, 
              <xref outputclass="class" keyref="class_patient">PATIENTS</xref>
 should be included. The 
              <xref outputclass="element" keyref="element_organisation_code__code_of_provider_">ORGANISATION CODE (CODE OF PROVIDER)</xref>
 will be that of the 
              <xref outputclass="class" keyref="class_organisation">ORGANISATION</xref>
 in existence as at the 31 March Census Date.        </p>
    <p>
      <xref outputclass="class" keyref="class_organisation">ORGANISATIONS</xref>
 may, by local agreement, make submissions of the Psychiatric Census other than at 31st March each year. Care must be taken to ensure that the 
              <xref outputclass="element" keyref="element_cds_activity_date">CDS ACTIVITY DATE</xref>
 chosen is compatible with the 
              <xref outputclass="supportingInformation" keyref="supporting_definition_commissioning_data_set_submission_protocol">Commissioning Data Set Submission Protocol</xref>
 used.        </p>
    <p>
To access more detailed information on the Commissioning Data Sets, see the 
              <xref outputclass="supportingInformation" keyref="supporting_definition_commissioning_data_sets_introduction">Commissioning Data Sets Introduction</xref>.        </p>
    <p>
      <b>Notation</b>
    </p>
    <p>
See 
              <xref outputclass="supportingInformation" keyref="supporting_definition_commissioning_data_set_notation">Commissioning Data Set Notation</xref>
 for an explanation of Group Status and Group Repeats.
              <b> </b>
    </p>
    <p>
      <b>Business Rules</b>
    </p>
    <p>
See 
              <xref outputclass="supportingInformation" keyref="supporting_definition_commissioning_data_set_business_rules">Commissioning Data Set Business Rules</xref>
 for an explanation of the business and/or processing rules which apply to individual Data Elements.        </p>
    <p>
      <b>XML Schema</b>
    </p>
    <p>
For guidance on the XML Schema constraints, see the 
              <xref outputclass="xmlSchemaConstraint" keyref="xml_schema_constraint_commissioning_data_set_version_6-2_xml_schema_constraints">Commissioning Data Set Version 6-2 XML Schema Constraints</xref>.        </p>
    <p>
For guidance on downloading the XML Schema, see 
              <xref href="https://v3.datadictionary.nhs.uk/data_dictionary/messages/xml_schema_trud_download.html" scope="external" format="html">XML_Schema_TRUD_Download</xref>.        </p>
  </div>
</body>
</topic>