<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="accessibility">
    <title>Accessibility statement</title>
    <shortdesc>This website has been designed to meet the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines
        (known as WCAG 2.2), an internationally recognised set of recommendations for improving web
        accessibility.</shortdesc>
    <body>
        <section><title> Accessibility statement for the NHS Data Model and Dictionary</title>
            <p>This page was last updated 26 November 2024. It is being reviewed against the latest
                website accessibility guidelines and will be updated shortly.</p>
            <p>This accessibility statement applies to the NHS Data Model and Dictionary <xref
                    href="http://www.datadictionary.nhs.uk" format="html" scope="external"
                    >www.datadictionary.nhs.uk</xref></p>
            <p>This website is run by NHS England. We want as many people as possible to be able to
                use this website. For example, that means you should be able to:</p>
            <ul id="ul_gv5_ccq_mdc">
                <li>change colours, contrast levels and fonts using browser or device settings</li>
                <li>zoom in up to 400% without the text spilling off the screen</li>
                <li>navigate most of the website using a keyboard or speech recognition
                    software</li>
                <li>listen to most of the website using a screen reader (including the most recent
                    versions of JAWS, NVDA and VoiceOver)</li>
            </ul>
            <p>We’ve also made the website text as simple as possible to understand.</p>
            <p><xref href="https://mcmw.abilitynet.org.uk/" format="html" scope="external"
                    >AbilityNet</xref> has advice on making your device easier to use if you have a
                disability.</p></section>
        <section id="section_cyp_hgp_5mb">
            <title>Compliance statement</title>
            <p>This website is partially compliant with the <xref
                    href="https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG22/" format="html" scope="external">Web Content
                    Accessibility Guidelines version 2.2</xref> AA standard, due to the
                non-compliances listed below. </p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_omf_ndq_mdc">
            <title>Non-accessible Content - non-compliance with regulations (if applicable)</title>
            <p>The Accessibility Monitoring Team at Government Digital Service have cited
                accessibility issues with the website. A full report of their findings is available
                    <xref
                    href="https://reports.accessibility-monitoring.service.gov.uk/reports/bc56035f-203f-4631-9a0b-9b600e55f4e2/"
                    format="html" scope="external">here</xref>.</p>
            <p>We know some parts of this website are not fully accessible:</p>
            <p><b>Keyboard navigation</b></p>
            <ul id="ul_b5c_rdq_mdc">
                <li>The dropdown menus from the navigational menu along the top of the webpage are
                    not accessible using the keyboard. This fails WCAG 2.2 success criteria 2.1.1 Keyboard.<p>
                        <ul id="ul_kqz_zdq_mdc">
                            <li>Keyboard users can still access the same content; by pressing enter
                                on a navigational menu item, this will load the webpage for that
                                menu item with a content menu available for selection on the left of
                                the webpage.</li>
                            <li>A solution to make the navigational menu more accessible using the
                                keyboard is being explored by our third-party supplier in November
                                2024. Updates will be shared on this statement when available.</li>
                        </ul>
                    </p></li>
                <li>The back to the top button is not accessible using the keyboard. This fails WCAG
                    2.2 success criteria 2.1.1 Keyboard.<ul id="ul_byj_zdq_mdc">
                        <li>Keyboard users can still access the same content:<ul id="ul_jbx_s2q_mdc">
                                <li>On Windows, the ‘Home’ and ‘End’ keys to go to the top and
                                    bottom of a page, respectively. </li>
                                <li>On Mac, the ‘Command + Up Arrow’ and ‘Command + Down Arrow’ keys
                                    in combination go to the top of the page, respectively.</li>
                            </ul></li>
                    </ul></li>
            </ul>
            <p> An investigation is planned into making this function available or the overall
                experience equitable across all users. </p>
            <ul id="ul_f5c_rdq_mdc">
                <li>The keyboard focus is not visible on the 'Skip content' button as the keyboard
                    user tabs onto the webpage. This fails WCAG 2.2 success criteria 2.4.7 Focus
                        Visible.<ul id="ul_a5b_2fq_mdc">
                        <li>An investigation is planned into making this function visible. </li>
                    </ul></li>
            </ul>
            <ul id="ul_h5c_rdq_mdc">
                <li>At 400% zoom, the keyboard focus is not visible as it tabs through all elements
                    across the webpage.<ph id="Hlk181700036"> This fails WCAG 2.2 success criteria
                        2.4.7 Focus Visible.</ph><ul id="ul_ths_2fq_mdc">
                        <li>An investigation is planned into making this function visible.<ph
                                id="Hlk181700048"/>
                        </li>
                    </ul></li>
            </ul>
            <ul id="ul_j5c_rdq_mdc">
                <li>When hovering over the navigation bar dropdown menus, there is no mechanism to
                    dismiss the additional content triggered without moving pointer hover or
                    keyboard focus. This fails WCAG 2.2 success criteria WCAG 1.4.13 Content on
                    Hover or Focus.<ul id="ul_r5p_ffq_mdc">
                        <li>A solution to make the navigational menu more accessible using the
                            keyboard is being explored by our third-party supplier in November 2024.
                            Updates will be shared on this statement when available.</li>
                    </ul></li>
            </ul>
            <p> </p>
            <p><b>Hidden buttons not named correctly</b></p>
            <ul id="ul_k5c_rdq_mdc">
                <li>This refers to hidden buttons for all 4 links listed under 'Help and guidance'
                    and all 4 links listed under 'About the NHS Data Model and Dictionary' pages.
                    This fails WCAG 2.2 success criteria WCAG 4.1.2 Name, Role, Value: ARIA commands
                    must have an accessible name.<ul id="ul_ww4_gfq_mdc">
                        <li>An investigation is planned into resolving this issue.</li>
                    </ul></li>
            </ul>
            <p> </p>
            <p><b>PDFs documents</b></p>
            <p>Documents that are hosted on the website and are under the administration of the
                service are primarily formatted in a PDF. The types of documents affected are Data
                Dictionary Change Notice (DDCN). Other documents linked from this website, i.e.
                Information Standards, are not within the control of the NHS Data model and
                Dictionary Service.</p>
            <p>The NHS England User Centred Design team have highlighted that PDF formatted
                documents are generally limited in user accessibility.</p>
            <p>We plan to investigate options to either fix PDF documents so that they are more
                accessible or replace/accompany them with a more accessible HTML version.</p>
            <p/>
            <p><b>Content that’s not within the scope of the accessibility regulations</b></p>
            <p>The accessibility regulations do not require us to fix PDFs or other documents
                published before 23 September 2018 if they’re not essential to providing our
                services. However, if there is a specific document that you would like to request in
                HTML format, we will do our best to oblige where possible and practicable.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_fyp_hgp_5mb">
            <title>Preparation of this accessibility statement</title>
            <p>The statement was last reviewed on 26 November 2024.</p>
            <p>We are currently investigating and rolling out changes to the accessibility issues
                highlighted in September 2024 by the Government Digital Service for the website. We
                will update this page with new information about the improvements we make.</p>
            <p>Furthermore, we are looking to complete a full website accessibility review to WCAG
                2.2 standard and are engaging with the NHS England User Centred Design team in
                acquiring resource to implement this exercise. </p>
            <p>We are expected to update this accessibility statement in December 2024, with further
                details to the highlighted non-accessible content and the intended accessibility
                review.</p>
            <p/>
        </section>
        <section id="section_cbr_42q_mdc">
            <title>Technical information about this website's accessibility</title>
            <p>NHS England is committed to making its website accessible, in accordance with the
                Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No. 2) Accessibility
                Regulations 2018.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_gyp_hgp_5mb">
            <title>Feedback and contact information</title>
            <p>If you find any problems not listed on this page or think we’re not meeting
                accessibility requirements, please contact <xref
                    href="mailto:information.standards@nhs.net" format="html" scope="external"
                    >information.standards@nhs.net</xref> to provide feedback or to request any
                further information about this statement. The NHS Data Model and Dictionary Service
                aim to respond to requests with 6 days.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_hyp_hgp_5mb">
            <title>Enforcement procedure</title>
            <p>The Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) is responsible for enforcing the
                Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No. 2) Accessibility
                Regulations 2018 (the ‘accessibility regulations’). If you’re not happy with how we
                respond to your complaint, <xref href="https://www.equalityadvisoryservice.com/"
                    format="html" scope="external">contact the Equality Advisory and Support Service
                    (EASS)</xref>.</p>
        </section>
    </body>
</topic>
