<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="privacy">
    <title>Privacy notice</title>
    <shortdesc>What to expect when <xref
                    href="https://www.datadictionary.nhs.uk/nhs_business_definitions/nhs_england.html"
                    format="html" scope="external">NHS England</xref> collects personal information on this
        system.</shortdesc>
    <body>
        <section id="section_pq3_cgp_5mb">
            <title>Personal information</title>
            <p>By providing us with your details, you are giving your consent that your personal
                information may be processed for the purposes necessary to conduct and improve our
                services. When collecting your personal information we will explain what we intend
                to do with it.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_qq3_cgp_5mb">
            <title>How we use your information</title>
            <p>This information helps to improve our service. We do not know (and do not wish to
                know) the identities of the individuals who visit our website, unless it is via a
                specific login for subscribed services.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_rq3_cgp_5mb">
            <title>Receiving communications from NHS England</title>
            <p>If you do not wish to receive any information from us please let us know at the point
                you first contact us or by emailing <xref
                    href="mailto:support.digitalservices@nhs.net" format="standards@nhs.net.net"
                    scope="external">support.digitalservices@nhs.net</xref>.</p>
            <p>If you already receive correspondence from the website, and no longer want to, please
                email <xref href="mailto:support.digitalservices@nhs.net"
                    format="standards@nhs.net.net" scope="external"
                    >support.digitalservices@nhs.net</xref>.</p>
            <p>If you would like your account and details to be removed, email <xref
                    href="mailto:support.digitalservices@nhs.net" format="standards@nhs.net.net"
                    scope="external">support.digitalservices@nhs.net</xref> and we will remove your
                details from this website and, if applicable, cancel any subscriptions you have on
                this system. However, records of any downloads made by your account may be retained
                for logging and audit purposes.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_sq3_cgp_5mb">
            <title>Data Protection within NHS England</title>
            <p>In order to meet our public task as the national source of health and social care
                information, <xref
                    href="https://www.datadictionary.nhs.uk/nhs_business_definitions/nhs_england.html"
                    format="html" scope="external">NHS England</xref> collects and process a range
                of information relating to individuals in their capacity as service users or
                patients. This includes information on:</p>
            <ul id="ul_tq3_cgp_5mb">
                <li>public health</li>
                <li>audits and performance</li>
                <li>mental health</li>
                <li>primary care</li>
                <li>hospital care</li>
                <li>adult social care</li>
                <li>the NHS workforce and estates.</li>
            </ul>
            <p>In addition to the above, <xref
                    href="https://www.datadictionary.nhs.uk/nhs_business_definitions/nhs_england.html"
                    format="html" scope="external">NHS England</xref> collects and processes
                information relating to its customers and stakeholders for business purposes. All
                personal information is handled with the utmost care and attention — whether on
                paper, electronically, or other means - and safeguards are in place to ensure that
                we adhere to the Data Protection Act 1998.</p>
            <p><xref
                    href="https://www.datadictionary.nhs.uk/nhs_business_definitions/nhs_england.html"
                    format="html" scope="external">NHS England</xref> regards the fair and lawful
                processing of personal information as essential in order to successfully achieve its
                objectives and ensure the support and confidence of the general public and
                stakeholders.</p>
            <p>Notification is a statutory requirement and every organisation that processes
                personal information must notify the Information Commissioner's Office (ICO), unless
                they are exempt. Failure to notify is a criminal offence.</p>
            <p>As a data controller, <xref
                    href="https://www.datadictionary.nhs.uk/nhs_business_definitions/nhs_england.html"
                    format="html" scope="external">NHS England</xref> provides the Information Commissioner's Office with details
                about their processing of personal information. The Information Commissioner's Office publishes certain details in
                the register of data controllers, including the name and address of data controllers
                and a description of the kind of processing they do. You can read this register on
                the <xref href="https://ico.org.uk/" format="html" scope="external">Information Commissioner's Office (ISO)
                    website</xref>.</p>
            <p>The Principles of The Data Protection Act 1998, as set out below are fully endorsed
                by <xref
                    href="https://www.datadictionary.nhs.uk/nhs_business_definitions/nhs_england.html"
                    format="html" scope="external">NHS England</xref>. The eight principles require
                that personal information:</p>
            <ol id="ol_uq3_cgp_5mb">
                <li>Shall be processed fairly and lawfully and, in particular, shall not be
                    processed unless specific conditions are met.</li>
                <li>Shall be obtained only for one or more specified and lawful purposes, and shall
                    not be further processed in any manner incompatible with that purpose or those
                    purposes.</li>
                <li>Shall be adequate, relevant and not excessive in relation to the purpose or
                    purposes for which they are processed.</li>
                <li>Shall be accurate and, where necessary, kept up to date.</li>
                <li>Shall not be kept for longer than is necessary for the specified purpose or
                    purposes.</li>
                <li>Shall be processed in accordance with the rights of data subjects under the
                    Act.</li>
                <li>Should be subject to appropriate technical and organisational measures to
                    prevent the unauthorised or unlawful processing of personal data, or the
                    accidental loss, destruction, or damage to personal data.</li>
                <li>Shall not be transferred to a country or territory outside the European Economic
                    Area unless that country or territory ensures an adequate level of protection
                    for the rights and freedoms of data subjects in relation to the processing of
                    personal data.</li>
            </ol>
        </section>
        <section id="section_vq3_cgp_5mb">
            <title>Access to your personal information</title>
            <p>You are entitled to obtain a copy of the personal information held about you by <xref
	href="https://www.datadictionary.nhs.uk/nhs_business_definitions/nhs_england.html"

	format="html" scope="external">NHS England</xref>
. Any request to access or
                obtain a copy of this information will be considered under Section 7 of the Data
                Protection Act.</p>
            <p>To make a request for personal information, email <xref
                    href="mailto:enquiries@nhsdigital.nhs.uk" format="nhs.uk.uk" scope="external"
                    >enquiries@nhsdigital.nhs.uk</xref> or write to:</p>
            
                <p>Information Governance Compliance Team</p>
                <p><xref
	href="https://www.datadictionary.nhs.uk/nhs_business_definitions/nhs_england.html"

	format="html" scope="external">NHS England</xref>
</p>
                <p>7 &amp; 8 Wellington Place</p>
                <p>Leeds</p>
                <p>LS1 4AP</p>

        </section>
        <section id="section_wq3_cgp_5mb">
            <title>Information security</title>
            <p>There are robust security measures in place for all personal information held by
                    <xref
	href="https://www.datadictionary.nhs.uk/nhs_business_definitions/nhs_england.html"

	format="html" scope="external">NHS England</xref>
 to protect against the loss or
                alteration of information under the organisation's control. If you have any
                questions about our privacy notice or the information we hold please contact us at
                the above address.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_xq3_cgp_5mb">
            <title>Other websites</title>
            <p>This privacy notice only relates to information that we obtain from you on this
                website. If you visit a different website through a link included on this site, your
                information may be used differently by the operator of the linked website. When you
                are moving to another website you are advised to read the privacy notice on that
                website.</p>
        </section>
    </body>
</topic>
