<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="terms_and_conditions">
    <title>Terms and conditions</title>
    <shortdesc>How you can use and reuse the content on this website.</shortdesc>
    <body>
        <p>Use of this website is governed by these terms and conditions.</p>
        <ul id="ul_ffp_t3p_5mb">
            <li>Copyright and database rights in the <xref
                    href="https://www.datadictionary.nhs.uk/nhs_business_definitions/nhs_england.html"
                    format="html" scope="external">NHS England</xref> Content are released free-of-charge
                under the current version of the Open Government Licence (“OGL”), except where
                specified, either in these terms and conditions, elsewhere on this website or in the
                OGL terms. This licence does not extend to any other intellectual property rights,
                including but not limited to patents, design rights and trade marks. If there is any
                conflict between the OGL terms and these terms and conditions these terms and
                conditions shall take precedence.</li>
            <li>This means that you can use <xref
                    href="https://www.datadictionary.nhs.uk/nhs_business_definitions/nhs_england.html"
                    format="html" scope="external">NHS England</xref> Content, including copying it, adapting it,
                and using it for any purpose, including commercially, provided you follow these
                terms and conditions and the terms of the OGL.</li>
            <li>
                <p>The OGL terms do not apply to the following categories of <xref
                    href="https://www.datadictionary.nhs.uk/nhs_business_definitions/nhs_england.html"
                    format="html" scope="external">NHS England</xref> Content,
                    and therefore these must not be used without our or the relevant owner’s prior
                    consent:</p>
                <p>
                    <ul id="ul_gfp_t3p_5mb">
                        <li>Any logos, visuals, image rights, trade marks, trade names and design
                            styles (except where these are integral to a document or data set) of
                                <xref
                    href="https://www.datadictionary.nhs.uk/nhs_business_definitions/nhs_england.html"
                    format="html" scope="external">NHS England</xref>, or any
                            predecessor or linked body, as well as of any partner or
                            contributor.</li>
                        <li>Information Standards. <xref
                    href="https://www.datadictionary.nhs.uk/nhs_business_definitions/nhs_england.html"
                    format="html" scope="external">NHS England</xref> permits the
                            copying and re-use of Information Standards, in whole or in part, for
                            commercial and non-commercial purposes but, to protect the integrity of
                            the Information Standards, you are not permitted to adapt, amend or
                            decompile the Information Standards for any purpose without our prior
                            consent.</li>
                        <li>Software, source code and any technical documentation relating to
                            software or source code except where released on the <xref
                                href="https://developer.nhs.uk/" format="html" scope="external"
                                >Health Developer Network</xref>, a public repository on <xref
                                href="https://github.com/" format="html" scope="external"
                                >GitHub</xref>, or any other platform we may specify from
                            time-to-time.</li>
                        <li>Information owned by third parties which we are not authorised to
                            licence on to you. This information will be clearly marked. If in doubt,
                            email <xref href="mailto:information.standards@nhs.net"
                                format="standards@nhs.net.net" scope="external"
                                >information.standards@nhs.net</xref>.</li>
                        <li>Information gained through any services or sections on this website (or
                            linked websites) which can only be accessed by logged-in users.</li>
                        <li>
                            <p>Any information which is marked as being under a different licence,
                                or not for release.</p>
                        </li>
                    </ul>
                </p>
            </li>
            <li>
                <p>If you do use any <xref
	href=https://www.datadictionary.nhs.uk/nhs_business_definitions/nhs_england.html

	format="html" scope="external">NHS England</xref>
 Content you must attribute it with the following
                    statement:</p>
                <p>“Information from <xref
                        href="https://datadictionary.nhs.uk/data_dictionary/nhs_business_definitions/n/nhs_digital_de.asp?shownav=1"
                        format="html" scope="external">NHS Digital</xref>, licensed under the
                    current version of the Open Government Licence.”</p>
                <p>or in cases where the <xref
	href=https://www.datadictionary.nhs.uk/nhs_business_definitions/nhs_england.html

	format="html" scope="external">NHS England</xref>
 Content is combined, adapted, or otherwise
                    modified in line with these terms and conditions:</p>
                <p>“Contains information from <xref
	href=https://www.datadictionary.nhs.uk/nhs_business_definitions/nhs_england.html

	format="html" scope="external">NHS England</xref>
, licensed under the
                    current version of the Open Government Licence.”</p>
                <p>By using any <xref
	href=https://www.datadictionary.nhs.uk/nhs_business_definitions/nhs_england.html

	format="html" scope="external">NHS England</xref>
 Content you accept and agree to the following terms:</p>
                <p>
                    <ul id="ul_hfp_t3p_5mb">
                        <li>
                            <p>You must not alter, adapt, edit or modify any <xref
	href=https://www.datadictionary.nhs.uk/nhs_business_definitions/nhs_england.html

	format="html" scope="external">NHS England</xref>
 branding where
                                this is integral to a document or data set.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li>
                            <p>If you do alter, adapt, edit or modify any <xref
	href=https://www.datadictionary.nhs.uk/nhs_business_definitions/nhs_england.html

	format="html" scope="external">NHS England</xref>
 Content in
                                accordance with these terms and conditions, where possible, you
                                should remove the <xref
	href=https://www.datadictionary.nhs.uk/nhs_business_definitions/nhs_england.html

	format="html" scope="external">NHS England</xref>
 branding.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li>
                            <p>You may not directly or indirectly suggest any endorsement or
                                approval by <xref
	href=https://www.datadictionary.nhs.uk/nhs_business_definitions/nhs_england.html

	format="html" scope="external">NHS England</xref>
 of your
                                website or any non-<xref
	href=https://www.datadictionary.nhs.uk/nhs_business_definitions/nhs_england.html

	format="html" scope="external">NHS England</xref>
 entity,
                                product or content or any views expressed within your website or
                                service.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li>
                            <p><xref
	href=https://www.datadictionary.nhs.uk/nhs_business_definitions/nhs_england.html

	format="html" scope="external">NHS England</xref>
 has absolute
                                editorial control over all <xref
	href=https://www.datadictionary.nhs.uk/nhs_business_definitions/nhs_england.html

	format="html" scope="external">NHS England</xref>
 Content and reserves the
                                right to alter, adapt, edit, modify or restrict the availability of
                                <xref
	href=https://www.datadictionary.nhs.uk/nhs_business_definitions/nhs_england.html

	format="html" scope="external">NHS England</xref>
 Content without prior notice.</p>
                        </li>
                        <li>You should refresh cached content every 24 hours to ensure you have the
                            most up-to-date version.</li>
                    </ul>
                </p>
            </li>
        </ul>
    </body>
</topic>
