<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8' standalone='no'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id='attribute_main_specialty_code.description'>
  <title>Description</title>
  <titlealts>
    <searchtitle>Attribute: MAIN SPECIALTY CODE - Description</searchtitle>
  </titlealts>
  <body>

  <p>
A unique code identifying each 
    <xref outputclass="class" keyref="class_main_specialty">MAIN SPECIALTY</xref>
 designated by Royal Colleges. This is the same as the 
    <xref outputclass="attribute" keyref="attribute_nhs_occupation_code">NHS OCCUPATION CODES</xref>
 describing specialties.  </p>
  <p>Specialties are divisions of clinical work which may be defined by body systems (dermatology), age (paediatrics), clinical technology (nuclear medicine), clinical function (rheumatology), group of diseases (oncology) or combinations of these factors. Only Specialty titles recognised by the Royal Colleges and Faculties should be used. This list is maintained by the General and Specialist Medical Practice (Education, Training and Qualifications) Order 2003 and European Primary and Specialist Dental Qualifications Regulations 1998.</p>
  <p>
Each 
    <xref outputclass="class" keyref="class_consultant">CONSULTANT</xref>
 should be assigned a 
    <xref outputclass="class" keyref="class_main_specialty">MAIN SPECIALTY</xref>
 by the 
    <xref outputclass="class" keyref="class_organisation">ORGANISATION</xref>
 to which the 
    <xref outputclass="class" keyref="class_consultant">CONSULTANT</xref>
 is contracted. For physicians and surgeons with a generalist component to their work, the 
    <xref outputclass="class" keyref="class_main_specialty">MAIN SPECIALTY</xref>
 should be general medicine or general surgery. The hallmark of a general physician or general surgeon is the continued care of unselected emergency referrals. The 
    <xref outputclass="class" keyref="class_main_specialty">MAIN SPECIALTY</xref>
 is specific to a 
    <xref outputclass="businessDefinition"
            keyref="business_definition_health_care_provider">Health Care Provider</xref>
. If, for example, a 
    <xref outputclass="class" keyref="class_consultant">CONSULTANT</xref>
 physician working in two 
    <xref outputclass="businessDefinition"
            keyref="business_definition_health_care_provider">Health Care Providers</xref>
 has a generalist component to the work in one and not the other, general medicine is only assigned as the 
    <xref outputclass="class" keyref="class_main_specialty">MAIN SPECIALTY</xref>
 in the former case. 
    <xref outputclass="class" keyref="class_consultant">CONSULTANTS</xref>
 in general medicine or general surgery may also have specialist interests and these should be recorded as well as the 
    <xref outputclass="class" keyref="class_main_specialty">MAIN SPECIALTY</xref>
.  </p>
  <p>
The initial source of the information should be the designation on the 
    <xref outputclass="class" keyref="class_consultant">CONSULTANT</xref>
's contract. This should be checked periodically against the work a 
    <xref outputclass="class" keyref="class_consultant">CONSULTANT</xref>
 is actually doing so that the statistics can relate to a 
    <xref outputclass="class" keyref="class_consultant">CONSULTANT</xref>
's current type of work.  </p>
  <p>
The 
    <xref outputclass="class" keyref="class_main_specialty">MAIN SPECIALTY</xref>
 only should be used for the purpose of producing Specialty costing statistics and for Workforce statistics where links with 
    <xref outputclass="class" keyref="class_activity">ACTIVITY</xref>
 and finance are required. Other specialist interests of 
    <xref outputclass="class" keyref="class_consultant">CONSULTANTS</xref>
 may be recorded for workforce planning purposes.  </p>
  <p>This will be used to indicate the skill level of medical and dental employees.</p>
  <p>
Pseudo 
    <xref outputclass="attribute" keyref="attribute_main_specialty_code">MAIN SPECIALTY CODES</xref>
 should be used in Commissioning Data Set messages for lead 
    <xref outputclass="class" keyref="class_care_professional">CARE PROFESSIONALS</xref>
 other than 
    <xref outputclass="class" keyref="class_consultant">CONSULTANT</xref>
 medical and dental staff e.g. 560, 950 and 960.  </p>
  <p>
The 
    <xref outputclass="attribute" keyref="attribute_main_specialty_code">MAIN SPECIALTY CODE</xref>
 for 
    <xref outputclass="class" keyref="class_general_practitioner">GENERAL PRACTITIONERS</xref>
 is General Medical Practice or General Dental Practice.  </p>
  <p>
Joint 
    <xref outputclass="businessDefinition"
            keyref="business_definition_consultant_clinic">Consultant Clinic</xref>
      <xref outputclass="class" keyref="class_activity">ACTIVITY</xref>
 should be recorded against the 
    <xref outputclass="attribute" keyref="attribute_main_specialty_code">MAIN SPECIALTY CODE</xref>
 of the 
    <xref outputclass="class" keyref="class_consultant">CONSULTANT</xref>
 managing the clinic.  </p>
  <p>
For further information, contact 
    <xref outputclass="businessDefinition"
            keyref="business_definition_nhs_digital">NHS Digital</xref>
 by email at: 
    <xref href="mailto:enquiries@nhsdigital.nhs.uk"
            scope="external"
            format="html">enquiries@nhsdigital.nhs.uk</xref>
 with the subject "Main Specialty and Treatment Function Codes".  </p>
  <p>
      <b>
Further information on the groupings and each 
      <xref outputclass="attribute" keyref="attribute_main_specialty_code">MAIN SPECIALTY CODE</xref>
      </b>
      <b>
 is provided at: 
      <xref href="http://www.datadictionary.nhs.uk/web_site_content/supporting_information/main_specialty_and_treatment_function_codes_table.asp"
               scope="external"
               format="html">Main_Specialty_and_Treatment_Function_Codes_Table</xref>
.    </b>
  </p>
  <p>Note:</p>
  <ul>
      <li>
         <div>
            <p>
New National Codes for 
                <xref outputclass="attribute" keyref="attribute_main_specialty_code">MAIN SPECIALTY CODE</xref>
 were introduced from 2 April 2020 as part of the update to the 
                <xref href="https://digital.nhs.uk/data-and-information/information-standards/information-standards-and-data-collections-including-extractions/publications-and-notifications/standards-and-collections/dcb0028-treatment-function-and-main-specialty-standard"
                     scope="external"
                     format="html">DCB0028: Treatment Function and Main Specialty Standard</xref>
. Note that new codes should not be reported nationally until the functionality to do so becomes available in the next release of the affected data sets and any associated XML Schemas. Prior to these updates, health and care 
                <xref outputclass="class" keyref="class_organisation">ORGANISATIONS</xref>
 must review the impact of this information standard and make appropriate changes to local health IT systems from 2 April 2020 and before 1 April 2021. Where new National Codes are recorded locally, these will need to be mapped to an appropriate existing code for transmission and reporting purposes.        </p>
         </div>
      </li>
  </ul>
  <code>TermServer</code>

</body>
</topic>