<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8' standalone='no'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id='element_neonatal_level_of_care_code.permitted_codes'>
  <title>Permitted Codes</title>
  <titlealts>
    <searchtitle>Data Element: NEONATAL LEVEL OF CARE CODE - Permitted Codes</searchtitle>
  </titlealts>
  <body>
    <simpletable relcolwidth='1* 4*' outputclass='table table-striped table-sm'>
      <sthead outputclass='thead-light'>
        <stentry>Code</stentry>
        <stentry>Description</stentry>
      </sthead>
      <strow>
        <stentry>
  <p>0</p>
</stentry>
        <stentry>
  <p>Normal Care: Care given by the mother or mother substitute with medical and neonatal nursing advice if needed.</p>
</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>
  <p>1</p>
</stentry>
        <stentry>
  <p>
Special Care: Care given in a special care nursery, transitional care ward or 
        <xref outputclass="businessDefinition" keyref="business_definition_postnatal">Postnatal</xref>
 ward which provides care and treatment exceeding normal routine care. Some aspects of special care can be undertaken by a mother supervised by qualified nursing staff. Special nursing care includes support and education of the infant's parent(s).    </p>
</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>
  <p>2</p>
</stentry>
        <stentry>
  <p>Level 2 Intensive Care (High Dependency Intensive Care): Care given in an intensive or special care nursery which provides continuous skilled supervision by qualified and specially trained nursing staff who may care for more babies than in Level 1 Intensive Care. Medical supervision is not so immediate as in Level 1 Intensive Care. Care includes support of the infant's parent(s).</p>
</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>
  <p>3</p>
</stentry>
        <stentry>
  <p>Level 1 Intensive Care (Maximal Intensive Care): Care given in an intensive care nursery which provides continuous skilled supervision by qualified and specially trained nursing and medical staff. Such care includes support of the infant's parent(s).</p>
</stentry>
      </strow>
    </simpletable>
  </body>
</topic>