<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8' standalone='no'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id='dataset_national_workforce_data_set.overview'>
  <title>Overview</title>
  <titlealts>
    <searchtitle>Data Set: National Workforce Data Set - Overview</searchtitle>
  </titlealts>
  <body>
  <div>
      <p>
         <b>Introduction</b>
      </p>
      <p>
The 
              <xref outputclass="dataSet" keyref="dataset_national_workforce_data_set">National Workforce Data Set</xref>
 (NWD) is a reference Data Set comprising standardised definitions to facilitate the capture of nationally consistent information relating to the NHS and wider healthcare workforce.  
              <xref outputclass="dataSet" keyref="dataset_national_workforce_data_set">National Workforce</xref>
 data items and definitions support a variety of workforce based collections. They are also embedded within operational HR/workforce systems including 
              <xref outputclass="supportingInformation"
               keyref="supporting_definition_electronic_staff_record">Electronic Staff Record</xref>
 (<xref outputclass="supportingInformation"
               keyref="supporting_definition_electronic_staff_record">ESR</xref>), and the NHS Jobs web system.        </p>
      <p>
The 
              <xref outputclass="dataSet" keyref="dataset_national_workforce_data_set">National Workforce Data Set</xref>
 provides common definitions for those data items that are needed to support workforce planning for the NHS workforce and is intended as a reference with an agreed set of data definitions for people who plan workforce at strategic, national and local level.        </p>
      <p>
The changing nature of the provision of NHS funded care is leading to plurality of supply, and therefore a 
              <xref outputclass="dataSet" keyref="dataset_national_workforce_data_set">National Workforce Data Set</xref>
 ensures that all suppliers of NHS care provide workforce information in an agreed and pre-determined format. This provides a practical means for the consistent collection of this information from all providers of NHS funded care to enable comprehensive Healthcare Workforce planning going forwards.        </p>
      <p>
The information captured using the values defined in the 
              <xref outputclass="dataSet" keyref="dataset_national_workforce_data_set">National Workforce Data Set</xref>
 will also be used locally within 
              <xref outputclass="class" keyref="class_organisation">ORGANISATIONS</xref>
 by a range of people in addition to those mentioned above, such as in Training and Development, Workforce Information and Planning and Equality and Diversity.  The accuracy and relevance of the data captured using the 
              <xref outputclass="dataSet" keyref="dataset_national_workforce_data_set">National Workforce Data Set</xref>
 values will therefore impact on a number of issues at local level and beyond.        </p>
      <p>
Further guidance has been produced by 
              <xref outputclass="businessDefinition"
               keyref="business_definition_nhs_digital">NHS Digital</xref>
 and is available on their website at: 
              <xref href="https://digital.nhs.uk/data-and-information/data-collections-and-data-sets/data-sets/national-workforce-data-set-nwd-and-nhs-occupation-codes"
               scope="external"
               format="html">National Workforce Data Set (NWD) and NHS occupation codes</xref>.        </p>
  </div>
</body>
</topic>