<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8' standalone='no'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id='supporting_definition_disclaimer.description'>
  <title>Description</title>
  <titlealts>
    <searchtitle>Supporting Information: Disclaimer - Description</searchtitle>
  </titlealts>
  <body>
  <div>
      <p/>
      <p>Computer Viruses</p>
      <p>Every reasonable effort has been made to ensure that the information and data that is held on this web site is free from computer viruses or other contamination. However, it is recommended that content downloaded from this site, is additionally checked by your own anti-virus checking system prior to use.</p>
      <p>
The 
              <xref outputclass="businessDefinition"
               keyref="business_definition_nhs_digital">NHS Digital</xref>
 cannot accept liability for any damage, however caused to computer systems and/or data contained therein by any programs, including viruses, in content downloaded from any 
              <xref outputclass="businessDefinition"
               keyref="business_definition_nhs_digital">NHS Digital</xref>
 website.        </p>
      <p>Links</p>
      <p>All links are provided for information and convenience only. We cannot accept responsibility for the sites linked to, or the information found there. A link does not imply an endorsement of a site; likewise, not linking to a particular site does not imply lack of endorsement.</p>
      <p>Availability</p>
      <p>We cannot guarantee uninterrupted access to this website, or the sites to which it links. We accept no responsibility for any damages arising from the loss of use of this information.</p>
      <p>Accuracy</p>
      <p>
While we have taken every care to compile accurate information and to keep it up-to-date, we cannot guarantee its correctness and completeness. The information provided on this site does not constitute business, medical or other professional advice, and is subject to change. We do not accept responsibility for any loss, damage or expense resulting from the use of this information. If you believe that there are errors, or inaccuracies please contact 
              <xref href="mailto:information.standards@nhs.net"
               scope="external"
               format="html">information.standards@nhs.net</xref>.        </p>
  </div>
</body>
</topic>